EMPLOYEE LEAVE POLICY
Effective Date: January 1, 2024

1. ANNUAL LEAVE

1.1 Entitlement
All full-time employees are entitled to 14 days of annual leave per calendar year. Annual leave accrues on a monthly basis at the rate of 1.17 days per month of continuous service.

1.2 Carry Forward
Unused annual leave may be carried forward to the next calendar year, subject to a maximum accumulation of 28 days. Any leave exceeding this limit will be forfeited unless prior written approval is obtained from the Human Resources Department.

1.3 Application Process
Employees must submit leave applications at least 7 working days in advance through the company's leave management system. Applications are subject to approval by the immediate supervisor and must not adversely affect operational requirements.

2. SICK LEAVE

2.1 Entitlement
Employees are entitled to 14 days of paid sick leave per calendar year. Sick leave is granted for personal illness, injury, or medical appointments.

2.2 Medical Certificate
A medical certificate from a registered medical practitioner is required for sick leave exceeding 2 consecutive days. The certificate must be submitted within 3 working days of returning to work.

2.3 Notification
Employees must notify their supervisor as soon as possible, preferably before the start of the working day, if they are unable to report for work due to illness.

3. PARENTAL LEAVE

3.1 Maternity Leave
Female employees are entitled to 16 weeks of paid maternity leave. This leave may commence up to 4 weeks before the expected delivery date.

3.2 Paternity Leave
Male employees are entitled to 2 weeks of paid paternity leave, to be taken within 4 weeks of the child's birth.

3.3 Adoption Leave
Employees who adopt a child under the age of 12 months are entitled to 12 weeks of paid adoption leave.

4. COMPASSIONATE LEAVE

4.1 Immediate Family
Employees are entitled to 3 days of paid compassionate leave in the event of death of an immediate family member (spouse, child, parent, or sibling).

4.2 Extended Family
One day of paid compassionate leave is granted for the death of a grandparent, grandchild, or parent-in-law.

5. UNPAID LEAVE

5.1 General Provisions
Unpaid leave may be granted at the discretion of management for personal reasons not covered by other leave provisions. Applications must be submitted at least 14 days in advance with detailed justification.

5.2 Maximum Duration
Unpaid leave shall not exceed 30 days in any calendar year unless exceptional circumstances warrant longer absence, subject to approval by the Head of Department.

6. PUBLIC HOLIDAYS

Employees are entitled to all gazetted public holidays as declared by the government. If required to work on a public holiday, employees will receive compensation in the form of time off in lieu or overtime payment at double the normal rate.

7. LEAVE DURING NOTICE PERIOD

Employees serving notice of resignation are generally not permitted to take leave during the notice period unless specifically approved by management. Any unutilized annual leave will be paid out upon final settlement.
